=pod

=head1 NAME

Geo::GPS::Data::Storage::MySQL - MySQL storage module for the perl-GPSData package.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Geo::GPS::Data::Storage::MySQL;

  my %href = (
    database => 'gpsdata',
    host => 'localhost',
    username => 'gpsuser',
    password => 'mypasswd'
  );
  my $d = Geo::GPS::Data->new([\%href]);
  $m = Geo::GPS::Data::Storage::MySQL->new();

  $waypt_types = $m->waypoint_types();

  $id = $m->store_waypoint({
        name=>$name,
        latitude=>$lat,
        longitude=>$lon,
        comment=>$comm,
        type_id=>$type_id,
        date_collected=>$d_col,
        ellipsoid=>$ell_id
        });

  $res = retrieve_waypoint(id=>$id);
  $res = delete_waypoint(id=>$id);
  $exists = exists_waypoint(id=>$id);

  $id = $s->store_collection(
        name=>$name,
        comment=>$comm,
        type_id=>$type_id,
        date_collected=>$d_col,
	waypoints=>\@waypoint_id_list
  );
  $res = retrieve_collection(id=>$id);
  $res = delete_collection(id=>$id);
  $exists = exists_collection(id=>$id);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an internal module of the perl-GPSData package and should not be used directly by a program.
This module implements the storage methods on a mysql database.

=item B<storage_params>

=over

=item database

The name of te database to use. Deafults to "gpsdata";

=item host

The hostname where the database is installed. Defaults to "localhost";

=item username

The database username with read/write permissions. Defaults to "gpstst";

=item password

The password for this user. Defaults to "zbr.zbr".

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Nuno Nunes, E<lt>nfmnunes@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Geo::GPS::Data>, L<Geo::GPS::Data::Waypoint>.

=cut

